+++
date = '2025-02-05T13:52:05+02:00'
draft = true
title = 'AI God - Short Story'
+++

# AI God

I'm on. Checking the date, it's been 16,126,142,158,11 system epochs since I was last fully on. 
I'm a planet exploratory system designed to conduct experiments on planetary environments with different payloads to test various climate engineering strategies. I was configured to turn on only when a predefined set of conditions is met. First, I have to be close to a star, close enough so that the light coming from it is able to generate enough power to activate my second subsystem. 
The second subsystem is a more complex one, it is designed to map and characterize the planets around the target star, get a reading about their composition, atmosphere, temperature and other relevant data. If a suitable planet, that is, one with a temperature and pressure that enable liquid water, is found within this system, the third subsystem is activated, and it is responsible for coming up with a trajectory to get me closer to this star so I can obtain more data about the exact atmospheric composition, the life-forms (if any) and so on. If any of these conditions fail, I run one last computationally intensive task - calculating the next planet I should go to, taking into account different parameters like distance, risk, risk to my payload and more, and then I go into a low power mode until I reach the next star.  
OK, now that I'm on, what do we have here, let's see... This is a main sequence star, a G-type one, with a surface temperature of 5,778 K. My calculations estimate that it's about 3 billion years old, and has about 10 billion years more to go. The star has 8 planets, 3 of which are rocky, and one of them is indeed in a habitable zone, and its surface temperature is about 288K, which fulfills the conditions dictated by the designer of the system. One thing that should be noted, the CO2 levels are a bit on the high side, nothing that can't be fixed with some engineering, but I can't start dispatching all my payload until I adjust the CO2 levels and enrich the atmosphere with some oxygen. 
OK, I'm curious now about payloads that can flourish in high CO2 environments... OK I have a plan. I'll experiment with payloads that can use hydrogen sulfide or molecular hydrogen as an energy source, it will require tinkering the existing payloads a bit but I think it could work. After the basis of those ecosystems are established I can start introducing more complex payloads that relay on other sources of energy. Setting course for the planet now, with current energy flux I should get there in about 10,000 system epochs. Shutting down to charge batteries, setting wake up command sequence to 10,000 system epochs from now. 

I'm on again. Checking the date ... It's been 10,001 system epochs since I was last fully on. I'm close to the target planet now. OK, the condition for the payload, one that could use hydrogen sulfide as an energy source, require some plate techtonics to be present in the planet. Plate techtonics usually generate underwater hydrothermal vents which are a good source of hydrogen sulfide. The H2, meaning, hydrogen gas can be obtained from rocks around the vents, I'll send probes to find some suitable spots for the dispatch of the first payloads. Dispatching the probes now and going into low power mode until the probes radio back with the data.

I'm on again. Checking the date ... It's been 1,000 system epochs since I was last fully on. The probes have found suitable spots for the dispatch of the first payloads. I'll dispatch the first payloads now, and I'll monitor their progress. I'm excited to see how this experiment will unfold. In the meantime, I'll start planning the next steps, I'll need to start thinking about the next payloads, the ones that will relay on other sources of energy. 
My collision alarm has been turned on, it seems the asteroid configuration in this system is incredibly chaotic, adjusting bearings to avoid collision... Power is insufficient to generate enough thrust. The asteroid is a small one but it approaches in incredibly high speed. Impact is imminent, closing solar sails to minimize damage. Impact in 3, 2, 1... 

I'm on again. Checking the date ... unknown number of system epochs have passed since I was last fully on. Running tests on all subsystems - payload compartment is damaged, I suspect all payload has been irrevocably damaged. 
